Watch anything together
Connecting your device to Miracast is easy; there are no clunky menus as Miracast dongles and devices are simply receivers for content.
Sharing your phone between friends so that they can see a short YouTube video is often not worth the hassle. Fortunately, Miracast is here to let you quickly display your mobile device’s screen on any Miracast supported system, including televisions and projectors.

Miracast is excellent if you’re a teacher as it lets you seamlessly connect your devices to a projector, giving you the ability to quickly display study tips, historical documentaries, dissection diagrams or the answers to last week’s English test. Miracast will also serve as a useful tool for you if you’re preparing to give a big presentation at your work.

To link a device look for an option in setting called screen mirroring, connect your Miracast receiver to your television or other devices (if the device doesn’t have a receiver built in), select the device you wish to stream to and enjoy the show.

Android devices with Android 4.2 and later are capable of supporting Miracast as well as most Windows devices. Many manufacturers such as Sony, LG and Panasonic have begun to implement Miracast receivers in their televisions removing the need for a dongle. Otherwise, you’ll need to buy a Miracast supported dongle to connect to any device.

Where can you run this program?
Android devices with Android 4.2 and newer as well as most Windows devices support Miracast. To mirror on screens, you may need to purchase a dongle.

Is there a better alternative?
No, while Chromecast is a viable alternative, it isn’t able to let you wirelessly stream content from your Android device or enable the sharing of material such as games, files, and other apps.

Our take
Miracast is an excellent option for anyone looking to mirror their device’s screen onto another system. Most mobile devices already have Miracast, and the need for dongles is disappearing.

Should you download it?
Yes, purchasing a Miracast dongle will give you a whole new avenue for entertainment and provide opportunities to improve your presentations.

Highs

Seamless display
Share on Wi-Fi devices
No need for HDMI ports
Lows

Requires enabled devices or a dongle
Inconsistent performance
Display capture only
